- yen for me as a vegan it's easy to be
self-righteous
shut it all down
settle the animals free that's put the
whole reason why my youtube channel
exists is that I'm not really interested
in these the answers to complicated
question I'm interested of all the murky
complicated you know moral gray areas
[Music]
a bonus yen there's always been a kind
of theatricality to YouTube and
theatrical does not necessarily mean
fake or phony or insincere but I really
do not hold it against other people if
in their criticisms of me if they're in
their disagrees with me they are a bit
shall we say over-the-top some of my
videos I speak in a very down-to-earth
way exactly the same way I talk to you
if we were face to face in a coffee shop
and in a few here and there I get a bit
theatrical myself I have a hilarious
video where I'm denouncing Ryan from
happy healthy vegan as I laugh at it
myself did I have any emotional
investment in that dispute with Ryan
zero it's nothing to me being dramatic
doesn't mean you're being dishonest the
video was also honest it was giving
voice to real concerns and real feelings
I have just in a way that was a little
bit unnecessarily aggravated and
aggravating look if you really think I'm
I'm angry at Ryan this way you know come
on get real it's all a bit of a joke
it's all of it theatrical and so I do
have a lot of a lot of tolerance for a
lot of patience for the antics from some
of my fellow vegans and sometimes people
really cross the line and then I feel
the role of people men of principle
people are gonna stand up on an ethical
point is to say hey here's the line
here's where you crossed it it's all fun
and games until someone loses an eye and
YouTube in the last 10 years has left
content creators to fight amongst
themselves and basically scream at each
other whenever they think someone loses
an eye and the YouTube sat back and
pretended that they'll sort it out for
themselves they'll draw the line as they
may that's changed just in the last
couple of months the way the game is
played will now change because for the
first time YouTube is standing up and
drawing those lines there's a difference
between theatricality and dishonesty
there's a difference between putting out
a video that may be a conflict between
two channels and maybe
being over-the-top being way more
emotional and dramatic than you would be
if you were talking the person face to
face in a coffee shop or what have you
there's there's a difference between
that kind of heightened life approach to
a debate or a dispute on YouTube and
presenting an argument that's really
dishonest that's based on lies or
concealment now one of the important
differences is that dishonesty destroys
the credibility and theatricality
doesn't look when a guy like ask
yourself lies straight up lies about
what Cory McCarthy said and why he said
it when he makes up lies and makes them
up in order to justify racism to
vindicate racism when he's offering
excuses for racism I think he's gonna
find that destroys his credibility in a
way that he doesn't fully appreciate you
America was founded by whites for white
there is no question that if you watch
this quotation from Cory antara in its
original context in the 40 minute
context it is not a mere statement
affect America was founded by whites for
whites
it is totally dishonest and totally
misleading for this kid
Isaac ask yourself it's totally
dishonest for him to claim that this is
merely a statement of fact that's his
first claim then his second claim is
that facts can't be racist Cory himself
admits that in that video he was angry
he was being hateful he was saying
hateful things but you're still making
excuses for him on the pretense that
there's nothing hateful about this that
it's merely factual okay your argument
is based on concealment and deception
and lies and the people who matter are
gonna figure that out whether they're
10% or 1/10 of 1% that's the audience
you should care about none of us should
pitch our content towards the stupidest
60% of our audience you've got a gear
content towards the most intelligent 10%
20% take your pick you
to set a higher standard for yourself it
is very very clear watching Cory antara
in context you can watch the whole 40
minute video you don't have to take my
word for it that they were making a
prescriptive statement it's not just a
dry fact where you can say facts can't
be racist they were making a statement
about what was what is what should be
what ought to be America was founded by
whites for whites it's a forty minute
video that this is clip from nobody can
watch that in context and think that it
said as a value neutral statement of
fact and Isaac ask yourself his defense
of this is to claim one that it's merely
a neutral fact to that facts can't be
racist I've never heard someone using
that line to make excuses for races
before three that he's not making
excuses for racist when he very clearly
is and Ford and then treat this as if
Corey McCarthy were in an academic
setting just making a comment about
something factually true about the
drafting process for the American
Constitution so many centuries ago
that's a lie that's a lie Isaac and
unlike Durham writers lies it's not a
lie that's just said out of simple
malice it's not a lie that's just meant
to defame me or anyone else
you are lying in order to make excuses
for racism you're trying to vindicate
someone who is a racist America was
founded by whites for white it's also
interesting to me that you try to excuse
racism by claiming that I am wrong that
I'm engaging in a psychological claim
I'm engaging in some kind of unknowable
leap of inference about someone's
personal psychology motivation in
claiming that they are a racist
that's not the way politics works the
word racist like the word separatist
simply describes a set of goals in
politics Cory McCarthy and Tara McCarthy
their stated objective their policy
objective they're pursuing is racist I
don't have to make any claim about their
psychology or their motivation they have
stated that there
goal is to kick out all of the non-white
people to exile them I can say that is a
racist political position that is a
racist policy and you're dead wrong to
say that I'm making some kind of
tremendous leap of inference as to what
motivates Corey McCarthy in the short
term when you do something like this
something dramatic and dishonest and you
create a conflict between two channels
of nothing in the short term it
increases your number of viewers and a
guy like durianrider was basically
addicted to that durianrider kept on
telling lies about people kept on
creating new drama you know week after
week month after month and in the short
term of course he just saw that he was
getting more attention he was getting
more fame he was getting more money well
in the last year that all ended and
during writers conflict with me is a
huge part of what it what ended it how
it ended why it there's no doubt during
writer defamed and denounced and told
lies about so many other people but the
situation with me was I was the first
person to really stand up to him and he
didn't just lie about my sex life or my
divorce or my career or all kinds of
personal things which he did which is
serious criminal defamation and he's now
apparently facing criminal charges women
you know he lied about little details
like what things I said on my channel
that anybody could look up give you one
example which is you know harmless I
mean it's not defamation a criminal
sense but I mean durianrider claimed
that I had insulted the makers of the
documentary cowspiracy that's a pretty
famous documentary amongst vegans most
people know that that movie that I had
denounced the movie cowspiracy as a
bunch of hippie now anyone can
check that claim by going to my channel
typing in the word cowspiracy in the
search bar and finding my film review I
did a movie review of cowspiracy back
when it was a new film and you get my
nuanced political science perspective on
the film which is quite flattering
that's quite a positive review now this
lie may be meaningless I mean this lie
it certainly doesn't compare to the the
type of defamation which now has
durianrider facing criminal charges in
court but as meaningless or harmless as
it may be
it still destroys his credibility and
these are the questions of the rules of
the game that will always lie outside of
you know the Adsense revenue scandal
were they calling it ad ad mageddon or
something okay now but you know the
questions about D monetization of videos
and censorship from YouTube nobody is
gonna censor you for telling a lie of
that nature you know what was my opinion
about a movie in a movie review but the
people who matter in your audience the
most intelligent viewers you've got the
people whose respect you need to earn
the people the people in the long term
you should be struggling to build a
constituency with a meaningful level of
trust and rapport with whether there are
10% of your audience or 30% there always
gonna be a minority those people are
gonna hear what you say and whether or
not that Google at themselves one way or
another when they find out that your
argument is based on concealment and
lies you will lose credibility okay Isak
AKA ask yourself your whole argument is
based on concealment and lies you
complain that other people misrepresent
what you have to say fair enough but you
are constantly engaged in
misrepresenting what other people have
to say and if you feel that in my video
where I mentioned you in passing and
about two sentences if you feel I did a
poor job of summarizing your view that's
a reasonable criticism but what's not
reasonable is to treat me as if I was
speaking about you with malice when I
clearly wasn't I wasn't intentionally
misrepresenting you and now we have a
stack of videos from you in which you do
misrepresent my position you do lie
about me about what I said why I said it
etc and you are very clearly doing so
with malice and above me on that look
durianrider destroyed his credibility
and in the short term he only got more
viewers but in the long term now one
year later you see the consequence of
that his channel was hollowed out his
whole status and the movement
profoundly changed he'll never have the
importance that he had before in long
term he destroyed himself even though
probably at each step of the way with
each little controversy with each little
instance of slander and defamation he
probably shot saw a short-term boost in
his numbers I mean ask yourself a lot of
people have talked to me saying that
used to be fans of your channel and when
they engage with you on these issues the
extent to which you misrepresented what
they had to say and then at some point
they figured out the sense of what you
were misrepresenting what I had to say
the extent to which you have lied and
been dishonest and been dishonorable in
this affair it will in the long term
hollow out your presence on YouTube even
if in the short term it gets a lot of
action it gets you a lot of attention
even someone with a channel that says
shallow as Harleys I mean durianrider
basically does diet advice you know
long-distance bicycling you know he's
not really dealing with politics in the
same way that Isaac and I are he's not
doing this issues but even for him when
it's revealed that his arguments are
based on dishonesty and concealment and
deception even for him his credibility
is destroyed so Isaac you can score some
points and you can get some short-term
attention with this drama the same way
that during writer did but the people
who matter one at a time however slowly
over months or years are going to figure
out that you're not just being
over-the-top and dramatic you're not
just being histrionic you're not just
being theatrical you're a liar
a bonus Yin